<b><a href="https://simpleprogrammer.com/understanding-the-problem-domain-is-the-hardest-part-of-programming">"Understanding the problem Domain is the hardest part of programming"</a>

The reason why some puzzles are so hard, is because you can’t really see what you are trying to build very clearly. Normally when you put together a jigsaw puzzle you follow steps that might look something like this: 1- Figure out major components of the picture. 2- Sort out the pieces. 3-Put together border pieces. 4- Put together each component of the picture from piles created.

The same thing happens when writing code. Writing code is like putting together a jigsaw puzzle. We put together code with the purpose of building components that we have taken out of the “big picture” of the problem domain.

Waterfall presented a much more clear picture of all user interfaces and use senarios.

Understanding the problem domain is the hardest part of programming. To make it easier, you can do one of two things: Make the problem domain easier. or, Get better at understanding the problem domain.

1) Take a game. You start at the begining, usually as a tutorial, and advance through levels, they get harder and harder whike gaining new skills or concepts that build on what you know.

2) Take the time to fully understand the whole problem. Do it right the first time.

<b><a href="https://betterprogramming.pub/intermediate-javascript-whats-the-difference-between-primitive-values-and-object-references-e863d70677b">"What's the difference between Primitive Values and Object References in Javascript?"</a>

All data types in JavaScript can be put into one of two categories: primitive values and object references. They each run differently.

JS has 8 different data types: Boolean, Null, Undefined, Number, BigInt, String, Symbol, Objects

When a primitive value is assigned to a variable, the variable is set to that value directly. When the variable is assigned with an object, however, it's different. Instead of containing the value directly, that variable contains a "reference" to it.

Key difference between Primitive Values and Object References is mutability. Primitive values are immutable, object references are mutable. This means that primitive values cannot be changed, but object references can be.

Strings are immutable. If snow is entered as variable then it cannot be changed. Have to use new variable and reassign it.  Arrays are mutable.

JS programs use equality operators to check if two values are the same. Loose equality is checked using the == operator and strict equality is checked by using the === operator.

Loose equality operator (==) will return true if the values of the two items being compared are the same. Strict equality operator (===) returns true if the values and types of the two objects being compared are the same.

Generally recommended that === be used over == when possible.

<b>Ch.3 "Object Literals"

Objects group together variables & functions to create models.

In object, variables become known as properties.

Key Value Pairs

Variables have name you assign to them.

Arrays have name & group of values.

Named functions have a name and value that is set of statements to run when function is called

Objects have name value pairs.


<b>Ch.5 "Document Object Model"

DOM isn't HTML nor JS. Covers 2 areas.

1- Making model of HTML page. 2- Accessing & changing of HTML page.

DOM tree is model of webpage, stored in memory.

4 types- Document node, Element node, Attribute node, & Text node.

Accessing & updating node- 1)locate node. 2)Use text content, child elements & attributes.

getElememtById, getElementsByClassName.

Nodelist- When more than 1 element is found. A collection of element nodes.

Select using class attributes, tag names, or CSS selectors.

parent node- Element node for containing element in HTML

previousSibling/nextSibling= find previous or next sibling in node.

firstChild/lastChild= find 1st or last child of element.

innerHTML= use to add to HTML, or leave blank to delete.

DOM manipulation=1) createElement() , then 2) createTextNode() , then appendChild(). To remove, use removeChild().

Pros & Cons of using document.write() and element.inneHTML can be found on - (Ref. on pg 226-227, Jon Duckett, JavaScript & JQuery.)

Defending against Cross-site Scripting (XSS)

1- visitor validation

2- double check validation

3- Database contains markup & script

4- All potentially dangerous characters are escaped upon exit

5- Only insert content generated by user into certain temp files

6- Don't create DOM fragments containing HTML from untrusted sources

Use inspect Element in dev tools (Chrome)

1- Add new item to start & end of list. 2- Set a class attribute on all items. 3- Add numbers of list items to heading.

<a href="https://github.com/scottie-l/Reading-notes-201">Back</a>