# Notes - Day 35

<a href = "https://www.vox.com/2018/8/17/17704526/google-dragonfly-censored-search-engine-china">Project Dragonfly, Google’s censored search engine</a>

Project DragonFly was Googles attempt to break into the Chinese market, which has the largest number of internet users in the world with a population of 1.3 billion. The employees expressed concern when they found out about the project due to China's human rights violations. Upon learning of the project they wrote a letter to the CEO, “Currently we do not have the information required to make ethically-informed decisions about our work, our projects, and our employment,” they wrote in the letter, obtained by the Intercept and the New York Times. The employees were concerned that the app-based search platform could block internet users in China from seeing web pages that discuss human rights, peaceful protests, democracy and other topics blacklisted by China’s authoritarian government.
Google CEO Sundar Pichai defended the project Thursday during a weekly staff meeting, saying that the project for China is merely in the “exploratory” stage. Many employees were concerned about whether Google had “lost its moral compass” in the corporate pursuit to enrich shareholders. In April, thousands of Google employees protested the company’s military contract with the Pentagon — known as project Maven — which developed technology to analyze drone video footage that could potentially identify human targets. About a dozen engineers ended up resigning over what they viewed as an unethical use of artificial intelligence, prompting Google to let the contract expire in June, and leading executives to promise that they would never use AI technology to harm others.
This shows that employees can effect change and signals why workers need an official voice in strategic decisions. Whether or not Google ultimately drops its plan to help China censor information will be a test of how far that power extends. Facebook is still banned in China, but chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has been trying to change that. In 2016, news surfaced that Facebook was building a censorship tool similar to Google’s Dragonfly project: It would allow a third-party to block certain Facebook posts in China in exchange for the government’s permission to operate the social media network there.
Many CEO's site the profitabiltiy of the company and their duty to shareholders, however, “Modern corporate law does not require for-profit corporations to pursue profit at the expense of everything else, and many do not,” as stated by the justices who wrote in their opinion.
I agree that employees need a voice to speak up as well as corporations being responsible for more than just profit. The suggestion of having employees on the board as well to represent the people and not the profit could help with some of the issue.

<a href = "http://solveforinteresting.com/big-data-is-our-generations-civil-rights-issue-and-we-dont-know-it/">Big Data is our Civil Rights issue</a>

Data is the real money maker today. The richest companies are all data companies of some kind. In the previous decades, there’s been a fundamental tension between three attributes of databases. You can have the data fast; you can have it big; or you can have it varied. The catch is, you can’t have all three at once. Known as the “three V’s of data”: Volume, Variety, and Velocity. Traditionally, getting two was easy but getting three was very, very, very expensive. The advent of clouds, platforms like Hadoop, and the inexorable march of Moore’s Law means that now, analyzing data is trivially inexpensive. And things become so cheap that they’re practically free. With the new, data-is-abundant model, we collect first and ask questions later.
Now, we collect information long before we decide what it’s for. And this is a dangerous thing. Although it sounds innocuous “personalization” is another word for discrimination. We’re not discriminating if we tailor things to you based on what we know about you—right? That’s just better service. But this has other ramifications and uses.
Tailored credit-card limits, to car insurance based on driver profiles. If I collect information on the music you listen to, you might assume I will use that data in order to suggest new songs, or share it with your friends. But instead, I could use it to guess at your racial background. And then I could use that data to deny you a loan. In this regard, Big Data is a civil rights issue, but it’s one that society in general is ill-equipped to deal with. There are brilliant examples of how a quantified society can improve the way we live, love, work, and play. Big Data helps detect disease outbreaks, improve how students learn, reveal political partisanship, and save hundreds of millions of dollars for commuters. Governments need to balance reliance on data with checks and balances about how this reliance erodes privacy and creates civil and moral issues we haven’t thought through.

The EU has enacted laws to try to help in how your information is collected and used, but this is a delicate balance that must be considered. Having targeted ads can be great to find things of actual interest to you that may not reach you through standard media. It can also put us in a bubble where we only get exposed to what we like and see never getting another viewpoint. This is a huge problem in today's society as everyone only hears themselves essentailly, so everyone agrees with them and they must be right. It has also created a new business in which there is minumal investment to "manufacture" goods, being your information, and continue to make money with no continued overhead. The product updates, and continues to stream in and the more you give, the more they can sell. Over and over and over again, without limit. It's duplicated and resold at no cost and often without our control. In order to use an app, we must agree to their terms of service. Our information is money.

---
<a href = "https://github.com/scottie-l/reading-notes/tree/main/reading-notes-401">Back</a>

---

<u>*  *</u>

<a href = "">"Source"</a>